[IMP] spreadsheet: expanding functions documentation (#19414)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/spreadsheet/work_with_data/functions.rst

======================
Formulas and functions
======================

**Odoo Spreadsheet** supports :ref:`functions <spreadsheet/functions/available-functions>` found in
most spreadsheet solutions, allowing you to perform calculations, retrieve information, and
manipulate data using formulas. In addition, using :ref:`Odoo-specific functions
<spreadsheet/functions/odoo>` allows you to work with live Odoo data from your database.

To help ensure data accuracy, Odoo Spreadsheet offers various ways to :ref:`troubleshoot errors and
inconsistencies <spreadsheet/functions/troubleshooting>` in formulas and functions.

.. tip::

>    Use `F2` to see the formula behind an active cell, and, if desired, edit the formula directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use `F2` to display the formula behind an active cell, and, if desired, edit it directly
```
or view

     <spreadsheet/functions/troubleshooting-irregularity-map>` to visually highlight cells
     whose formulas are not consistent with the pattern established by surrounding cells.

.. _spreadsheet/functions/troubleshooting-irregularity-map:

Detect formula inconsistencies
------------------------------

Issues with formulas, such as accidentally overwriting a formula with a fixed value, breaking a cell
reference, or not respecting the arguments of a function, can result in incorrect values being
displayed. In a large dataset, such errors can be particularly difficult to identify manually.

Odoo Spreadsheet's **Irregularity map** analyzes formulas for patterns and highlight anomalies
visually: areas that contain similar formulas share the same color, while anomalies are shown in a
different color.

To use the tool, click :menuselection:`View --> Irregularity map` from the menu bar, then check the
spreadsheet for inconsistencies. To turn off the irregularity map, click :guilabel:`Irregularity
map` or :guilabel:`Turn off` on the banner below the toolbar.

.. example::
   In the example (in which the formulas have been made visible by selecting :menuselection:`View

>    -->` :icon:`fa-eye` :menuselection:`Show --> Formulas` from the menu bar), column :guilabel:`D`

Reviewer: When I activate Show --> Formulas, all cells in the sheet (including headers) display formulas, whereas in your example below, only the cells in column D seem to display a formula. I tried activating the feature only for those cells but it seems it's always applied to the whole sheet. Any idea why?

   contains the amount of commission earned over the first and second quarters. This is calculated
   by adding the sales of the two quarters, shown in columns :guilabel:`B` and :guilabel:`C`, then
   multiplying it by the bonus rate in cell :guilabel:`G1`.

   The irregularity map identifies the pattern in the formulas in column :guilabel:`D`, and uses the

>    same color for cells that match the pattern. The following anomalies are highlighted separately:

Reviewer: I find *uses the same color for cells that match the pattern* a bit confusing. 
Several cells in your example (and probably in other real use cases as well) are displayed using the *same color* (i.e., D2D3,D6,D7 in red and D8 and D9 in orange). Did you mean to say that all cells that follow the same pattern are displayed using the same color, i.e., that each color represents a given pattern? For example, I suppose if I had another cell matching the pattern in D5, it would also be displayed in turquoise? Not sure if my question/comment is clear enough, let me know if it isn't!

Author: Hmmm, I get your point that my wording can be misleading ... this isn't helped by the fact that my example is a pretty small sample size to be working with. A more common use for this would be a big table with many more rows, where there might only be one or two anomalies visible among dozens of 'correct' formulas.

I'm going to push an updated version (including a slightly longer table, to better illustrate the fact that the red cells are the 'correct' formula) ... see if a few changes in wording in this section make it less confusing.

   - **Cell D4**: This cell features a static value instead of the formula.
   - **Cell D5**: The formula in this cell, while returning the correct value, does not follow the
     pattern.

>    - **Cells D8 and D9**: These cell feature a referencing error due to the missing absolute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Cells D8 and D9**: These cells feature a referencing error due to the missing absolute
```
